TODO.md, before:

# TODO

## Enhancements
- If not everything is connected to an destination when using predicates, it can be that the dataflow never finishes. Write some tests. See Github project DataflowEx for implementation how to create a predicate that always discards records not transferred.
- Now the Connection Manager have a PrepareBulkInsert/CleanUpBulkInsert method. There are missing tests that check that make use of the Modify-Db settings and verify improved performance. DbDestination modifies these server side settings only once and at then end end of all batches.
- Check if SMOConnectionManager can be reinstalled again
- All sources (DbSource, CsvSource, etc. )  always read all the data from the source. For development purposes it would be benefical if only the first X rows are read from the source. A property `public int Limit` could be introduced, so that only the first X rows are read for a DBSource/CSVSource/JsonSource/. This is quite easy to implement as SqlTask already has the Limit property. For Csv/Json, there should be a counter on the lines within the stream reader...
- CreateTableTask.CreateOrAlter() and Migrate(): add functionality to alter a table if empty, or Migrate a table if not empty
 () MigrateTables - will compare two tables via their defintion, and then alter the table if empty or copy the existing data into the new table)
- CopyTableDefinitionTask - uses TableDefinition to retrieve the current table definiton and the creates a new table. 
Very good for testing purposes.(Be careful, the PK name must be ignored or changed for some dbs)


### Enhance DbMerge 
- The current merge does suppor the "UseTruncateMethod" flag. If set to true, the table is truncated before inserted the modified data.
In theory, this will also work for the MergeModes NoDeletions && OnlyUpdates. But then the method `ReinsertTruncatedRecords` should not 
throw an exception - itstead, it should use the InputDataDict to reinsert the records that were truncated (but shouldn't be deleted.)
- The CachedRowTransformation/Lookup currently is not enough, because data needs to be loaded in batches. Otherwise performance will be horrible


### Enhance Lookup Transformation & BlockTransformation
- Blocking/batch transformation can have a link error to, but this can produce a lot of output. Write some performacne tests for it- perhaps write out the error message in batches as well? At least this makes sense for the BlockTransformation, because data can get quite big here
- Now the CachedRowTransformation is used. This is nice, but not ideal because data needs to be loaded in batches. So data also needs to arrive in batches in the lookup. 
- Now the BatchTransformation can be extendend with a CachedBatchTransformation
- The CachedBatchTransformation can be used in the lookup
- The lookup with the batches can be used in the DbMerge to partially prefetch batches from the source


## Bugs

- When an exception is thrown in the AfterBatchWrite of the DbDestination (see DbDestinationExceptionTests), then the thrown exception should bubble up. (E.g. an argumentexception). But instead of this exception the sources are also faulted, and the exception in the sources will bubble up first and rethrown by ETLBox. This should be checked if this can be solved better. 

### Improved Odbc support:

This is only relevant for Unknown Odbc (or OleDb) source. For better Odbc supportl also  look at DbSchemaReader(martinjw) in github.
Currently, if not table definition is given, the current implementation of TableDefintion.FromTable name throws an exception that the table does not exists (though it does). 
For known Odbc connection (like Sql Server), the sql is known, but for the "default" odbc connection there can't be a sql to get the table definition. But this could be done using the Ado.NET schema objects. 
It would be good if the connection manager would return the code how to find if a table exists. Then the normal conneciton managers would run some sql code, and the Odbc could use ADO.NET to retrieve if the table exists and to get the table definition (independent from the database).

# Network class
- The Network class can execute all sources and wait for all destination (see existing branch where I did the first tests)
- if dataflow component is connected to two successor, but without using predicates, data is only send to the first successor. This is confusing: If there are links to more than one successor, and no predicate nor Multicast is in between, an exception or log output should be produced (probably part of a "Network" class)
- network class should check for circles
- network class should check if all transformations have output
- network class can check (if all objects are passed) if everything is connected
- netwrok should check if two or more transformation are linked without predicates

# MySql Connector
- See last answer here: [Most efficient way to insert Rows into MySQL Database - Stack Overflow:](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/25323560/most-efficient-way-to-insert-rows-into-mysql-database)
- [mysql-net/MySqlConnector: Async MySQL Connector for .NET and .NET Core](https://github.com/mysql-net/MySqlConnector)

# ColumnRename: 
- Add an action that allows to have a particular renaming action invoked for every row - this can be additionally to the existing renaming via ColumnMapping
- the current logic does lock faulted. What about columsn which aren't renamed? Do they stay (which should be the desired behavior) or are they removed? What about the RemoveColumn property? 

# Ideas

- Release notes page?
- Roadmap page? 
- Excel IngoreBlankRows without Range - infinite loop?
- RowTransformation: Add Parallelization
- New transformation: Distinct (as partial blocking) which only let the first row through, but keeps a hash value to identify similar rows

- make list properties to ICollection or IEnumerable (e.g. MemorySource/Dest or TableDefinition)
- Redo logging - this is currently messy
- Add parquet source/destination
- Add neo4j sourcd/destination

# Inbox
- Adding test for DbMerge: If property names that are passed in IdProperties/CompareProperty/UpdateProperty, which do not exists in Poco (or Expando!), then a meaningful exception should be thrown
- The general Merge concecpt (load data from source via lookup, and then either insert, update or delete data in destination) could be applied to other file types as well (e.g. CSVMerge or JsonMerge or XmlMerge)...
- Make almost all classes (except POCO etc.) sealed - this would need a better docu creation. Currently, every data flow transformation e.g. RowTransformation<TInput, TOutput> has a derived class RowTransformatiomo<ExpandoObject, ExpandoObject>. To seal these properly, the current RowTransformation<TInput, TOutput> would need to be internal and derived classes publicß
- CheckParameters is in most cases empty: add additional checks here (always throw an ArgumentNullExcpetion or ArgumentException or ArgumentOutOfRangeException)

Commit message:

Fixing text source/dest example

TODO.md, after:

# TODO

## Enhancements
- If not everything is connected to an destination when using predicates, it can be that the dataflow never finishes. Write some tests. See Github project DataflowEx for implementation how to create a predicate that always discards records not transferred.
- Now the Connection Manager have a PrepareBulkInsert/CleanUpBulkInsert method. There are missing tests that check that make use of the Modify-Db settings and verify improved performance. DbDestination modifies these server side settings only once and at then end end of all batches.
- Check if SMOConnectionManager can be reinstalled again
- All sources (DbSource, CsvSource, etc. )  always read all the data from the source. For development purposes it would be benefical if only the first X rows are read from the source. A property `public int Limit` could be introduced, so that only the first X rows are read for a DBSource/CSVSource/JsonSource/. This is quite easy to implement as SqlTask already has the Limit property. For Csv/Json, there should be a counter on the lines within the stream reader...
- CreateTableTask.CreateOrAlter() and Migrate(): add functionality to alter a table if empty, or Migrate a table if not empty
 () MigrateTables - will compare two tables via their defintion, and then alter the table if empty or copy the existing data into the new table)
- CopyTableDefinitionTask - uses TableDefinition to retrieve the current table definiton and the creates a new table. 
Very good for testing purposes.(Be careful, the PK name must be ignored or changed for some dbs)


### Enhance DbMerge 
- The current merge does suppor the "UseTruncateMethod" flag. If set to true, the table is truncated before inserted the modified data.
In theory, this will also work for the MergeModes NoDeletions && OnlyUpdates. But then the method `ReinsertTruncatedRecords` should not 
throw an exception - itstead, it should use the InputDataDict to reinsert the records that were truncated (but shouldn't be deleted.)
- The CachedRowTransformation/Lookup currently is not enough, because data needs to be loaded in batches. Otherwise performance will be horrible


### Enhance Lookup Transformation & BlockTransformation
- Blocking/batch transformation can have a link error to, but this can produce a lot of output. Write some performacne tests for it- perhaps write out the error message in batches as well? At least this makes sense for the BlockTransformation, because data can get quite big here
- Now the CachedRowTransformation is used. This is nice, but not ideal because data needs to be loaded in batches. So data also needs to arrive in batches in the lookup. 
- Now the BatchTransformation can be extendend with a CachedBatchTransformation
- The CachedBatchTransformation can be used in the lookup
- The lookup with the batches can be used in the DbMerge to partially prefetch batches from the source


## Bugs

- When an exception is thrown in the AfterBatchWrite of the DbDestination (see DbDestinationExceptionTests), then the thrown exception should bubble up. (E.g. an argumentexception). But instead of this exception the sources are also faulted, and the exception in the sources will bubble up first and rethrown by ETLBox. This should be checked if this can be solved better. 

### Improved Odbc support:

This is only relevant for Unknown Odbc (or OleDb) source. For better Odbc supportl also  look at DbSchemaReader(martinjw) in github.
Currently, if not table definition is given, the current implementation of TableDefintion.FromTable name throws an exception that the table does not exists (though it does). 
For known Odbc connection (like Sql Server), the sql is known, but for the "default" odbc connection there can't be a sql to get the table definition. But this could be done using the Ado.NET schema objects. 
It would be good if the connection manager would return the code how to find if a table exists. Then the normal conneciton managers would run some sql code, and the Odbc could use ADO.NET to retrieve if the table exists and to get the table definition (independent from the database).

# Network class
- The Network class can execute all sources and wait for all destination (see existing branch where I did the first tests)
- if dataflow component is connected to two successor, but without using predicates, data is only send to the first successor. This is confusing: If there are links to more than one successor, and no predicate nor Multicast is in between, an exception or log output should be produced (probably part of a "Network" class)
- network class should check for circles
- network class should check if all transformations have output
- network class can check (if all objects are passed) if everything is connected
- netwrok should check if two or more transformation are linked without predicates

# MySql Connector
- See last answer here: [Most efficient way to insert Rows into MySQL Database - Stack Overflow:](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/25323560/most-efficient-way-to-insert-rows-into-mysql-database)
- [mysql-net/MySqlConnector: Async MySQL Connector for .NET and .NET Core](https://github.com/mysql-net/MySqlConnector)

# ColumnRename: 
- Add an action that allows to have a particular renaming action invoked for every row - this can be additionally to the existing renaming via ColumnMapping
- the current logic does lock faulted. What about columsn which aren't renamed? Do they stay (which should be the desired behavior) or are they removed? What about the RemoveColumn property? 

# Ideas

- Release notes page?
- Roadmap page? 
- Excel IngoreBlankRows without Range - infinite loop?
- RowTransformation: Add Parallelization
- New transformation: Distinct (as partial blocking) which only let the first row through, but keeps a hash value to identify similar rows

- make list properties to ICollection or IEnumerable (e.g. MemorySource/Dest or TableDefinition)
- Redo logging - this is currently messy
- Add parquet source/destination
- Add neo4j sourcd/destination

# Inbox
- Adding test for DbMerge: If property names that are passed in IdProperties/CompareProperty/UpdateProperty, which do not exists in Poco (or Expando!), then a meaningful exception should be thrown (actual, this is party true if these are used as attributes, better to write a test for the real behavior!)
- The general Merge concecpt (load data from source via lookup, and then either insert, update or delete data in destination) could be applied to other file types as well (e.g. CSVMerge or JsonMerge or XmlMerge)...
- Make almost all classes (except POCO etc.) sealed - this would need a better docu creation. Currently, every data flow transformation e.g. RowTransformation<TInput, TOutput> has a derived class RowTransformatiomo<ExpandoObject, ExpandoObject>. To seal these properly, the current kRowTransformation<TInput, TOutput> would need to be internal and derived classes publicß
- Add a better approach for logging/display the progress... e.g. having it more customized in the nlog output?
- CustomSource (and actually all sources or all components?) could need an InitAction . Check if this is feasible to implement.
